If you want to learn Gran 3 programming, you are in the right place.  We are gna start today with a new show and start to build it up in this Garnet 3 on PC tutorial. Grenade 3 programming is a cool thing. If you know the Grenade 2, it's not that hard to learn 3, but there's a few changes around the software and there's a lot of new things as well.  But let's just start with going through the interface.  If you don't have the Grandma 3 software, you can download it on grandma grandmaighting.com and it's free, so you can just download it and you can follow along if you want to.  So let's start with just going through the interface up here.  You have the ability to shut down and restart and lock the screen.  You can do that.  Oops.  Here we have the command section.  This is basically a graphical representation of the command section you would have on a real Gran 3 console. So in the beginning you gna go in here to do store and update and edit and and all the used in numeric keypad.  But when you progress in your programming, you will turn on the shortcut menu here and then you can actually see what shortcut on your keyboard you can use to do different things.  I find myself using the update, sorry, the store command all the time.  I find myself using the delete command, the align command and some of the other ones can never remember where they are.  I have to go in and have a look.  And you can still just open it up and just push a button in here.  So that's the command section. Let's go into this one.  The master controls.  This is a little bit more advanced.  You can control your grand master, your world master, your highlight, low light, solo.  Um, a lot of these things you're not gonna use in the beginning.  So uh let's just leave it at that for now.  You have some speed masters as well.  This is for when you use your faces or your effects.  On granimate 2 it was called effects.  Now it's called faces to get the moving lights to move in circles and stuff like that.  You have some time options as well.  We're not going to use that in this Grenade 3 tutorial.  So this is the master control.  If you go below that you can see the playback controls. This is if you are on a Gran 3 light you would have 15 faters I believe.  And this is the 15 faters you can see on the on the real console.  So if you store something on fat number one here, that's gna be fat number one on the real console.  So that's the playback controls.  Then we can go into this one. The custom master section.  Um, again you can see some programming times, you can see some executed times.  If you have some executor saved and you need you need some special time on them, you can actually sit in here and it's a it's a long story.  We'll get to it at a later point. Oh, there we go.  Down here we have our screens, our displays.  Right now we are on display one.  If you are on a Granny 3 full size desk and console, you will have three windows on it.  And here you can turn on window number two, you can turn on window number three uh like this.  I'm gonna try to stay on the same window most of the time in this tutorial. Here you have some external screens you can connect to the real consoles as well.  And here you have on the on the real Granate 3 light and the granimate 3 full size.  You will have two small screens in the command section between the buttons and you can turn them on here both of them if you want to. And we're not trying to use them here.  I'm trying to keep, as I said, everything on one screen.  It's a little bit difficult because you can actually zoom in and out on this one.  Let me show you real quick.  If we go into our groups, for instance, now I opened our groups window.  I'm gonna get into this later.  But if we here, you can see groups one through to 118. But if I go into the small icon up here and I go to my display configuration here, then I can actually see the scale for what we are looking at here.  So if I right click on this one, I can go down to 0.75 and that's gna give me a lot more room to work with. Um, I'm still gna try to keep it on the other resolution because it's gna be very hard for you to see on if you're watching on mobile, smaller screen.  So, I'm trying to keep it on scale number one. Just beware that if you set this one to 0.75, you will have a lot more room to have different gobos and and groups and stuff like that on the on the display.  So, let's shut this one down.  That is basically just a quick runaround of the different options you have here.  Over here you will have some predefined views you can select. I think we're gna delete them because part of this learning curve of the Gran 3 is to define your own views and to know where to find the different views. So if we just use these ones and don't try to do the other ones ourselves, it will be very difficult for you to navigate this.  I better sit this resolution back by the way to one so you can follow along.  There we go.  So, let's start with patching a show file.  We have no fixtures in the show right now.  So, we need to go into the icon up here.  And here you will have a lot of different options.  We will touch some of them in this tutorial.  First of all, the patch.  We're going to go in and patch some moving lights in a minute.  The live patch is what you do when you are in a show. When you exit a patch, if you are in a network, it's gna send the show data, the show file to the other consoles connected to the network.  Maybe if you have some processing units on the network as well.  So, it's time to stop the show for about a second.  If you do changes in the live patch, uh, it's not gonna stop the show when you exit the patch again.  So, that's the patch. We're gonna go into it in a minute.  We have an output configuration.  If you have uh real console, I don't have a real console connected here or any MA hardware, but here you can actually see uh you can see the outputs, the physical outputs and the the different output forms on the real consoles. We go back into our network configuration. There we go.  In here, if you have multiple consoles connected, you can see I have a computer connected right here. If I connect a Granate 3 light another computer, another on PC software, it's gna show up here and I can connect these two consoles together or these two computers together, which can be really cool if you programming on one computer and you have maybe a 3D window open on another computer, you're not gna stress the first computer with calculating all the the the 3D rendering.  So, that's another option.  We're gonna get into that maybe not in this tutorial but definitely in other tutorials.  If you check out my channel I have a tutorial series on Gran 3 programming uh multiple different episodes where we touch different subjects in each episode.  So you can check that out.  It's on the channel here.  But basically this is this is the network we have in and out.  This is also where you can define where stuff comes out of the desk.  Where stuff comes in that can be DMX in this can bone in.  It can be all different things.  It's a little too advanced for a beginner.  Um, DMX protocols here as well.  If you wan to transmit Artnet and streaming ACN and if you wanna receive ArtNET and streaming ACN, this is where that happens. You have your backup menu here.  If you want to save your show, if you want to load an old show, if you want to create a new show, this is in here. We can go back again and say quick save. If you just press this one, it will save your show.  It's very easy.  You have import export.  You can import different you can import macros, you can import positions, you can import if you're building a show on another console and and someone sends you some exports of that can be positions, that can be, as I said, macros or whatever. So this is where you do that.  You have some different options in your desk slide, desk lights and your backgrounds and everything.  We are not gna touch that in here, but you can basically change the You can see right now we have like this gray black kind of thing going on.  If you go into daylight here, it's gna change the interface completely. So that depends on if you are outside maybe in the sun on a festival you might load this one.  It makes it a little bit easier to see.  But let's just go back to the default one here.  Imports.  There we go.  Then we have some other settings in here.  You can set up your date and time and some USB configuration.  You can update your software.  You can configure your touchscreens.  You can do all kinds of different things here on PC settings.  If you have some MIDI MIDI going on.  I mean a lot of this is highly advanced and a lot of this you will never use.  So that all depends on what kind of job you have.  I come from a rental company.  I work in a rental company and I do a lot of festivals.  So my basic understanding of the tree which is the one I've been working on for the last few years, is servicing other people, not myself.  So if some artist comes along and they have their lighting crew with them, I help them as much as I can and integrate their consoles into our network and so on.  This is what I do. over here.  If we just try to touch this one again, you can see we open this one and this display option opens over here. You can delete a screen.  You can delete all screens.  You can configure the display as I just showed you. And you can if you have a screen full of stuff, you can go in a window like this and you can say delete window.  It's not gna be deleted deleted.  You can still touch these presets over here and it will show up again.  But if you are if you want to build something from scratch, you can go in this icon here and say delete this screen or delete all screens.  Let's just say delete delete this screen and it all goes black.  As I said, you can still just push a button over here and it comes back.  But right now, let's just delete all screens and let's do something really crazy and that is to delete all these over here.  I am pressing control D for delete.  As you can see I do that control Delete comes up in the command line down here because I have my shortcuts turned on. So I just delete all these views here and now we have a blank disk.  So now it's up to us to build a show from this. So let's go into the patch and say what do we need to do?  I would like to patch some let's say let's go into the shares library.  The shares library is an online library uh where you can search for different fixtures. These ones are local they are what what's saved on your your hard drive. There's loads of fixtures in here in the Granate 2 library and you can use the Granate 2 fixture profiles on the Granate 3 software without any problems. But I love to use the GDTF which is the new file format here.  So let's just search for let's say Mac Viper. We have a Mac Viper performance.  We do n't have any normal Vipers.  Okay, so let's go back into Granimate 2 and say Viber in here and we have a Viber profile.  And let's just check out which one we need.  I need the 16 bit version. I selected and then it's gna ask me a name.  I don't have to name it, but I'd like to do that every time.  If I say Viber one or Viber and then a number at the end, it's gonna go with that number. And if I patch 12 Vipers, it's gna name them Viper one, two, 3, f, f up to 12. So let's do that.  Let's say we have a quantity of 12 and we want their fixture ID to be 701. Fixture ID is the instead of physical faders on large consoles which you had back in the day.  Today you are working with fixture ids.  So fixture ID is a unique number for this fixture on your console.  So you press 701 on your numeric keypad and then please 701 please and 701 enter on your on PC keyboard it's gna select that specific fixture. And right now I'm asking the desk to patch 12 of them starting at 701. And then the patch down here is gna say I'm gna patch it at universe number one and starting at DMX address number one on that universe.  So let's just say apply to this and as you can see here it patched all of them.  So let's patch some some more fixtures.  A new fixture here. We can say see if the aura is in the GDTF library. There is an Aura XB in here.  And let's see what we have here.  Yeah, let's just choose that one.  There we go.  We have an RXB and it's already named it number one which is fine.  Let's just patch 12 of them again.  And we call them 601. And we want to change the patch to universe number two starting at number one. So there we go.  Now we patch some oras and we patch some Vipers. So we need to group these back on the on the Gran 2. You would have like two windows where one would be this is my this would be like a line or layer with all your fixture fixtures for with all your vipers for instance in it.  We can do that here as well but it's changed up a little bit.  You would have layers on the granime 2 right now in the granime 3 you can group things together and it's kind of weird to do it that way but but it works.  So if we go into go all the way down to new fixture and we say insert new fixture we can go into the gran 3 library up here and we can search for group like this and we can select it and say this is group number one.  How many groups do we want?  I think we're gna patch about four different fixture types.  So, let's just say we need four groups.  And the fixture ID doesn't matter right now because we're gonna change it in a minute.  So, let's just leave it at 713 like this.  Now I have group one, two, three, f and group number 713 up through to 716. I want to put something in my group. There's nothing in the group right now. So, let's just take in group one take all the vipers.  If we select them like this, you just press down on the mouse and then drag all the way down.  Now they are all selected.  And we can say cut. And we can go into group number on's new fixture.  If you can't see it, just click the small arrow down here.  New fixture. And we say paste.  Now we pasted it into group number one.  So let's rename group number one.  And we do that by pushing it like this and then right clicking and we can say all Vibers.  All Viber. There we go.  And we can say all our Vipers are our group sorry our fixture number 701 and up.  So let's just rename this one.  Right click on it and say this is group number 700. So in group number 700 you will have 7123 going all the way up.  You can select a group now on your numeric keypad if you press 700 please instead of 701 or two or whatever.  If you say 700 please it's gna select all of them which is new.  You couldn't do that on granimate two but let's put something into group number two.  Let's do that with all of us here.  Let's select them all the way down like this.  And we do it again.   Yes .  And we say cut.  And we go into group number two and into the new fixture.  And we paste it in here like this.  We rename this one as well.  Ara may we need to call it all a like this. There we go.  And we set the number to for the group.  There we go.  We just leave group three and four for now.  And let's just try to leave the patch and see what's been happening here.  Right now, we have nothing in here.  So, be able to see what we are doing.  We need to set up our 3D window.  We might do that first.  So, let's go in.  Um, if you have the blank black canvas as you have here, no matter where you push your mouse button, if your mouse is here, it's gonna build a window from here and downwards.  So, if you delete this one and go up here and say, "Now I did it all the way up in the corner." delete that again 3D over here. Where are our 3D?  There we go.  That's our 3D window and then we have some extra room here to maybe make it a small window.  Then I think we need the extra room here for our groups and our color pools and all that stuff.  So let's just make this rather actually we can make it big in the beginning and then we can simply just see if we can find our fixture somewhere. Right now we have a 3D window but there's nothing in it.  And that's because all our fixtures are on beneath the floor right here.  But if we say we go into the command section and we say through 71 please.  Now we selected all our Mac Vipers and as you can see it's there's a little yellow selection down here.  If you go into the 3D window here and you go into setup, if you see the difference down here, right now, you can control the dimmer and the position and the gobo and so on.  We'll get back to that in a minute.  But if I press set up, it's gna change down here.  You have your position, position X, Y, and C and some rotation stuff down here.  So, right now we selected 12 Vipers.  And if we hover over this round icon here and you roll your mouse button, you can actually roll it up.  You can also grab it with your left click on your mouse and then do it like this.  Scroll around.  But I find it a little bit easier just to use the scroller on the mouse.  Right now it's telling us that it put it at 6 meters or 6.9 meters.  You can push this one and then you can simply say okay I want it in 7 meters please and now it's 7 meters above the floor. This only looks like one fixture but it's actually 12 fixtures grouped into one.  They are on top of each other. That's why you can only see one.  You need to move it on your xaxis like this. But you still moving all 12 of them. So it still appears to be only one.  So if you push this one and set it back to zero and you go down to this align menu down here this align button down here and you push it once or you right click it.  You can see all the options you have here on Granate 2. If you wanted to space something out, you would use these two bottom ones here.  This one spac it one way, this one spac it another way. This one towards center, this one away from center.  This changed a little bit on the Grenade 3. I don't know why, but right now you use this dash here.  Some somebody can give me an explanation maybe.  If you know why, then please leave a comment down below this video here.  But now we selected this dash here.  And then if you hover over this one again and I start scrolling, then it spac the moving lights out.  And I would like to place them at 6 meters like this.  So it's minus 6 meters.  So this one if you have center here, this one is 6 meters away from center and this one is also 6 meters away from center. Now we space them out but we don't know if this is number one or this is number 12. But this is a cool thing on Grand May 3. You can show labels on body.  So if you push this one, it will tell you which moving light you have where.  I think this is a really cool feature and I really like this.  You can turn this one on as well if you turn on the moving lights. If you exit setup and you turn them on, it's gna tell you exactly which cone is hitting where, which is also pretty cool.  But we don't need this.  We just leave this label on on the body turned on. So now we positioned all our vipers. Let's do the same for all ours. So we press this small add button down here.  This one is the more the commands you need all the time.  You can you can clear your programs like this.  You can set them to full.  You can turn them off, set them to zero.  You can set them to the default.  You can cut them out.  You can turn them on, turn them off, all kinds of stuff.  Um, basically I mostly only use this one down here.  I use clear all the time.  I use full, I use zero. That's basically where it starts.  But as you progress, as you get better as a Gran 3 program, you can start using these ones down here.  So now we have positioned all our vipers.  Let's do the same with all ours.  So we go back into the command section.  We just clear just to be sure that we don't have anything in the program.  And we choose 601 through 612 like this.  So that's basically the same thing.  You can see it pops up down here.  We set these ones to 7 meters.  I think we should set these ones to maybe 6 and a half meters like this in height.  And then we can space them out here like this and do the same thing.  We just space them out to 6 meters in each direction like this.  There we go.  So now we have all our vipers and all our auras. Maybe we need to push them back just maybe half a meter like this.  So now if we go into the camera up here and we right click and we have actually never used this one. I have actually never used this one.  So basically you can change cameras up here but you need a different view for it. The one we just deleted over here.  But you have all kinds of camera angles you can change.  But we're not going to do that now.  Basically this is all your moving lights.  So let's add some other stuff. Let's go into the patch and say in our group number this one number 715. Let's just patch them directly in here right now.  So new fixture you can just right click.  It's time to open up the window for this.  And we can patch some let's just do some demers maybe.  Uh, generic generic dimmer. Um, let's do an eight bit like this one. There we go.  Demo number one.  That's fine.  That's a cool name.  Let's set the quantity to 12 again.  Let's call the units 101 and let's patch it to universe number 3.1. If you don't if you don't if you wan to use if you wan to fill up your DMX universes a little bit better, you can go into the sheet view over here like this and it's gna tell you where stuff are patched and where you have room for patching some more if you want to.  Right now you can see we are on universe number one.  You can see the small one here.  If you scroll down you will find universe number two and so on.  But let's say we want to patch something on universe number one.  Maybe we are on a Gran 3 on PC wing.  The command wing you can purchase.  It has I think it's two DMX outputs.  Maybe it's four.  I do n't remember.  But sometimes you need to cram stuff a little bit better together.  So now you can see we are using DMX channel 312 as the highest number.  So basically we have room to patch on 313 if we want to.  But I like to keep it a little bit different.  So let's just patch them at 501. So now we know we have a lot of room in between if we need to patch some extra moving lights without it being weird.  So let's just say 501. And now we know it's gna be on universe 1. 501. We have 12 of them.  So it fits on one universe because we have 512 channels.  So let's apply to this one and we have all our dimmers.  So let's exit the patch.  And when you exit the patch is gna ask you, do you want to save an exit or you wanna discard or you want to stay in the patch?  The patch is not completed before you save an exit.  So it's not working before you save. It's not stored into the database in the desk before you save right here. So, let's just save this one and clear the program and then select. You can also write it down here 101 through.  Oh, now I had my shortcuts on. Beware of that one.  If your shortcuts are on here, it's gna of course not be able to write the way you want to.  So let's just say 101 through 1112 and once again it selects it down here.  So let's just set this one up. It only selected a few of them.  That's kind of weird.  Let's just set it back to zero. Let's clear this one and let's try it again.  101 through 11. There we go.  Maybe it works now. Something on the floor here.  I don't know what it is. Oh, that's the groups.  Ah, that's weird. The groups are down here and the groups are represented as well.  I've never seen that before.  Never mind.  Let's just set these ones to maybe 7 and a half meters. Maybe move them towards us a little bit. So we say minus half a meter. Oh, that's wrong.  Let's do it again. Minus 0.5. There we go.  Now it's half a meter space between the other ones.  And let's align it down here as we did with the last ones.  Just align it all the way out like this.  6 meters again like the other ones.  So now we patched our vipers and we patched some dimmers.  So let's just start with this and build some views.  Right now we have our 3D view.  Let's just close this one down again and let's say okay what do we need to work with this? I think we need some presets.  We have the option of dimmer presets, position, gobo, color, beam, focus, control, shapers, and video.  And you have some all presets as well.  If you store into a dimmer preset like this, it will only take your dimmer parameters here.  So, if you have a position in the program and a go and a color, it doesn't matter.  If you start into a dimer preset, it will only take into account what's in your dimer preset. And that goes for everything in the dimer preset.  So let's just do this like this.  Maybe this size.  Come on.  There we go. So if we have our all preset they will take any parameter in here.  So depending on you can store all kinds of stuff in here in all the presets.  I used to use the all presets a lot on the Granate 2. I think I should stop doing it because it sometimes it's really annoying if you are doing a festival and you need to update only the position but not the demmer information.  But let's see if we can build this here in another way.  We have our positions here.  We can put them right here.  I think I'm going to move this line a little bit down and this one a little bit down because I want to make room for my groups here.  My groups are basically my selections of fixtures.  I'm going to show you this in a second. I need room for all these groups here. And then we have dimmer, we have position.  We definitely need some color as well.  So we go into preset and we choose color. There we go.  And maybe we should do a go bow as well. If you are watching this channel once in a while, you will see that this is very similar to what we have been doing in our on PC tutorials in on the channel.  So this is basically just one where we go through all of it and we start a show from scratch and then don't go from subject to subject. And this also means that the explanation of the different things is gna be a little bit different and of course a little bit shorter in these in these tutorials.  So now we have our go color position and dimmer and we have our groups up here but we have nothing in it yet.  So let's put something in it.  Or maybe we should store the view first.  So if we turn on the shortcuts again and I know that if I press Sore and I push this one up here I can say groups and presets. So if we accidentally delete something like we deleted this window you can push this one up here and everything comes back to normal.  But let's keep on programming here.  What else do we need? We need our 3D window again.  So we go into common, we open 3D and we scale it all the way down like this.  Um, I'd like to have the 3D window open.  I mean, if you are on a tour something, you will have your lighting rig in front of you and you don't need the window, the 3D window.  But since we are programming on the console, sorry, on the Grand 3 on PC here, we need to see what we're doing. [clears his throat] So next to it, I would like to have my playback.  Where is my playback? There we go.  Playback is a representation of your father.  This is the first five factors on your console. If you want to change that and see I want to see maybe all 15 faters, you can push the MA logo up here and you can say sections and you can set it to three. Now you have a lot of faders but then we can't really see what we're doing.  So let's just set with this one back to one like this.  Now we have five fathers.  That should be enough in the beginning. Ah, just had some coffee.  Now we need our sequence sequence sheet as well as sequence programming thing.  Let's see what we can find that one.  There we go.  That's the sequence pool.  This is where we store our sequences in a minute.  Let's just take this one down here. And then we can open our sequence window here.  There we go.  This is where you can see if you store a somewhere, you can see it pop up here and you can change the times and and everything.  So, let's just take this one and set the font size to 10. That gives us a little more room to see what we're doing. Just extend this one and maybe it's gna pop up with some things we are missing. Basically we can let's just work with a few sequences and then we can open a macro pool which we are probably going to need in a minute over here.  So this is our view for now.  So let's just store this one as well.  We can just start on top of this one and it's gna replace what we had before.  So again, if you delete this window and you want to go back to where we came from, you just push this one and it saved everything.  Just remember to save otherwise it's gna disappear. So what do we need to do?  We need to start building some groups.  We need to have quick access to all our moving lights.  Once again, let's say 701 through and I did it again.  Turn off shortcuts.  701. through I can't spell and that selected everything that's not the point clear that again and we go back into this sorry into the command section 71 through 7 please that should be all our vipers and we store this one in group number here and we go 6 through 6 all our and we store that one next to it and then we clear again and then we 11 all our dimers and we store that next to it. Grand 3 has a new functionality and a new function called swip swipiece swip with a W. Swipe is where you can quickly do stuff in the in the console. Sometimes if you wanted to change something you would have to edit it.  You have to push a button and say edit and then say edit group one and store group one and do different commands.  But now on the gran 3 you have the swipe and you can simply if you take your your left mouse button and you push it and you drag it outside of the box this one is gna open and it's gna stay open as long as you keep the the the mouse pressed down.  So here we can label and we can delete and we can move we can copy and we can assign and we can go into the settings and we can store on top of it.  It's actually quite cool and I find myself using it a lot. So swipes are pretty brilliant.  Let's label this one.  I think all our vipers all vipers. Yes, it is clear that one does the same here and labels it all. like that.  And we do the same thing over here.  All dimmers dimmers.  There we go.  So now we have all our vipers, all our oras and all our dimers in groups. A part of Grand Mate 3 is appearances.  appearances is where you can color label everything the way you want it.  So right now you see the dimmer has the same color as the position and as the color and as the gobo, this this greenish blue greenish kind of color.  If you want to change that, you can do that.  You can go into the demmer like this and you can go into appearance and you can say there's a lot of appearances here.  I want a new look.  And then you can simply make it for instance let's make it magenta and magenta is here and we can call it magenta. So now we have a magenta appearance and it puts it on all of the fields here.  So everything you store something in your dimmer it's gna have this background.  If you want to change it to this color over here, you can set this one to none.  And then you can go into the pool color and you can do the same thing.  You can set that to magenta and okay, there we go.  Now we change the color of this one.  This is to make it easier for you to quickly find something.  If you know that your dimmers are always this color and you know your positions are always another color, then it will be a lot easier to navigate around the desk.  So let's just give them some different colors here. And we do the same over here. And it doesn't matter what color.  It's all up to you what you want to do. So let's take this one as well and give it a weird color like this and sequences are fine.  Maybe the groups are fine as well.  Now we have our dim position color and gobo.  And we could add a lot of other stuff because as you can see it's only dimmer position color and gobo down here and gobo and color. Then you have beam focus and control as well .  We don't have room for it here, but on if you are doing a real show, you would probably want to have those views open as well.  We are just gonna keep it simple so you can follow along on a on a small screen.  That's basically why we are on this resolution here.  But let's clear again and say what do we need to do?  Let's start with making some colors.  For instance, let's say all our vipers and all ours.  Let's go into color.  And here we can mix some colors if we want to.  You can press it right here and then you can type in your different values ​​or you can turn this one up and down as well.  But it's not the easiest way to do it.  You can also open a color preset. So if we take the 3D maybe the playback window and we just remove this for a second and we push the empty space here then we can go into where is it the color picker right here a color picker and the color picker has some different options.  This one I mean everywhere you push it you can you can adjust a color on this one.  You can adjust the color on this one.  You can use your fathers.  You can work with can say can magenta and yellow or RGB.   It's all up to you.  You can go into the book here and you can okay I'm used to working with le colors and then you will have all your le colors in here and sometimes they will match a le color and sometimes they won't.  Um, so it's not like it's not calibrated to the moving lights.  But if you go into this one, the color picker, and you can say my vipers and my Ours, let's just turn them on.  They are white right now.  Simply move around here and then you can easily make your colors.  So, let's start with making an open white color because you always need to be able to get into a color, but it's just as important to get out of it as well.  So, let's store this color right here.  And as you can see it already recognizes it to be open white. So let's just move down here and we can label it to open white. Then let's make a son. We store this one here and we label it can like this.  We'll do a magenta maybe. And we store it right here.  And we label it magnetic. And we can say yellow and green.  Ov, I'm moving the window here.  Let's just do a yellow and start here.  And we call it yellow. And let's have a dark blue here.  Well, there we go.  And we store it here as blue. The reason why we do color preset like this is then you don't have to mix a color every time you need it.  And if you take all your moving lights into a color, let's just turn it on and put it into blue.  If you at some point wan to change this blue color, but you have done a complete show and you use this blue color multiple times in your show, if you change this one, you're gna change the entire programming, which is good because it's a reference.  So if you want to change something here and that goes for everything in the color presets.  If you use it when you program which is the wise thing to do then you can always come back to it as well and then you can always change it.  Say if you clone your fixtures to another fixture type and the colors are all weird then you can just change these one these these colors in here and it's gna change your entire show which is really essential.  Let's do all our vipers and our auras and our dimmers as well.  And then let's turn them off and we can store this in our dimer preset.  Let's turn them on and we can store this in a dem preset as well.  And we can label this uh off. We can label this per. And then if you if you need maybe a 75% let's do that 75 go we say command section and we say 75 per please and we store that right here.  That didn't work.  That didn't work.  Let's do this again.  Go into the dimmer and we set it to 75% like this.  And we store it on top of this one.  And we merge.  There we go. When you need to store something, let's say we need it at 50% as well.  Let's change it to 50% like this.  Instead of pressing store like I did before, you can simply use your swipey here and you can hold it down, go outside the box and say store.  So now we did a 75% right here and we did a 50% right here.  There we go.  50 per. Now it's in a weird order.  So we need to change this up a little bit.  We need to move it around. So if we clear the disk we can use this piece again and we can say I want to move this one over here.  I w to move this one over here.  I w to move this one over here.  And then we can move it into order like this.  This is pretty brilliant about the swipes.  I really like this because when I saw it for the first time I was like a I'm probably not going to use that what that's new.  I don't need new. But it's pretty brilliant and you it's gna save you a lot of time especially if you work on the on PC version like this because otherwise you have to go in and out of this window all the time.  If you have two windows, you can keep this one open on one window and you can program on the other one.  That's all up to you and the setup you have at home. So right now we can say all our Vipers at 100%.  That's pretty cool.  And you can even use these ones to save effects if you have any effects running.  We'll do that later.  Right now we have all our dimmer presets.  We have a lot of colors down here.  And now we need to do some positions.  So let's just say we need to turn them on.  We need to see what's going on and we need our position here.  And we need to tilt them a little bit forward like this.  Maybe we need to zoom this one out a little bit so we can see what we're doing. So basically this is our straightforward position.  So we can basically just store this one right here and say position number one.  Then we can select all our vipers and we can go in like we did before when we set up the 3D view. We can align and we can pan and we can fan it out like this and we can select our oras and we can do the same. And that could be our position number two.  And again we can push this one down great position. Hello.  What am I doing? There we go.  Position number two.  Alr. So, let's clear this one again.  And now we have all our vipers in position number one.  We turn it on.  We can move it to position number two.  Back to one. And then we can say we needed to go into the audience like this. And we can store this here and say uh label audience. And we can do the same with our A oras. We turn it on and we tilt it forward. And we can basically start from this one and then we can forward it like this. And we can store it on top of this one. We merge it.  There we go. And once again we go into this one.  We turn it on and we can move it a little bit further up into the air.  And that is gna be our I always call it a roof position but you can call it air or whatever.  People have all different names to use here.  So we call it roof. position.  There we go.  So now we have four positions.  Maybe we need to do a downstate center position as well for a lead singer.  So we're clear here.  We take all our vipers.  We turn them on, we put them in position number one.  And we go down to our align tool.  We make it active and we pan it towards the center. Like this. That's not enough. And maybe we need to turn this one off. and we tilt it a little bit. Let's just call this one downstage center.  So we store this one here and we label it DS center like this.  So now we have for our lead singer downstage center with all our vipers.  We could do the same with all our auras.  Should we do that?   Yes .  And we turn it on and we move it a little bit up and we align it with our pan like this.  I know it's not very precise but that's the way we could we could do it quickly.  We could do it uh basically uh fixture by fixture with going to to the next one and adjusting the position.  That's what you would do if you were doing a real show.  But this is just basically to show you how it works. So that's all ours.  We store this one on top of the other one and we merch it in. So now we have a few positions there as well. Make we could make a few gobos with our vipers.  Once again we turn it on, we put it in a position and we go into go and we choose gobo wheel.  Gobo wheel number one.  And here which is really cool, you can see all the different gobos you have on this gobo wheel.  So let's start by recording go with nothing in it.  So this is this if you put a gobo in it's as important to put it in as it is to be able to take it out again.  This one is open go open and then if we put in the next one we can call the dots and we store this one.  We don't have to label it because it shows a representation of what goes in it.  We'll do it with the next one.  It's called Happy. And we can do it with the next one.  It's called I don't like limbo.  So we go to the big bones here and we st that one as well.  So now we put in some gobos.  We did some uh some colors, some positions, and a little bit of grouping up here.  I think we need to do some groups for the odds and evens on this one because we're gonna need this later.  So if we take this one and we move it over here, we don't have that much room and because we need to be able to see what we're doing as we talked about before.  We're moving this one over here. Right now if we don't need the color preset anymore because we already built the colors we need.  So we can just go back to our playback section here.  We need to do our layout. On my channel you can find a long tutorial about how to build a layout view but let's just do it in this episode as well.  We have saved our view here.  So let's build a new one.  We clear the screen like this and we click up here and say to build a layout I need my groups.  I need to be able to see my groups like this.  And I need to open my layout right here. layout need and we can find the layout view.  There we go.  And the layout view [clears his throat] is empty.  There's nothing in it because we need to assign what we need on our layout view. So basically we are working now in the layout view, the default layout view which is everything right now.  Nothing right now.  Basically we I think we could delete this one.  What would happen? Nothing.  So we just delete this one and then we store a new one and we call it we call it all. So we need to store our vipers, our dimers into our layout all view here.  So the way it works on the grandma 2 was you would select all your fixtures and you would store them into your layout view and into this layout pool here.  It works a little bit different in Gran 3. You would select your group and then you would say assign and that is alt a on your shortcut keyboard and then you would press it right here and it's gna save your layout or your fixtures into the layout view and then we can start moving it around and and manipulating the the sizes and and stuff like that.  You have this button over here.  This is where you move stuff around.  You have this one over here. Then you can browse around it and select it.  You can put some extra ones in here. You can delete them again if you want to.  If they are selected, you can simply press delete and all kinds of other interesting stuff here.  So right now we need to align this to the to the view as we have here.  So we need to move it all the way up like this and then we need to space it out.  And once again we do it in the same way as we did in the 3D view.  And when we are panning your fixtures, you can simply use the dash here and then you can scroll your mouse and then it's gna align them evenly.  So there we go. We don't like the width and height of 50. We need to make them bigger.  So let's make them 100 high and 100 wide like this.  Then you can suddenly see the intensity on the vipers.  You can see their number and you can choose what kind of information you want here.  We're not messing around with that in this tutorial, but you can basically say, okay, I only want to see the number or I only want to see the name or I only want to see the percentage of you can see it in hex code and everything.  You can you can change all that around.  Let's not do that right now.  So basically we just saved all our vibes into a layout view. Maybe we need to assign the group as well .  So we have quick access to the entire group and not only every single Viber like we have here. So let's just move this one back again. One thing I need to talk to you about is you need to move it around if you want it completely um spaced out correctly. This snaps you can move it around and it snaps to the grid like this.  I like to do that because then you know exactly when you position the next one that the spacing is the same and all that.  So I like to do that.  So we can just quickly space them out like this. We move them over here and we move them again. Takes a little bit of time, but I think when you do this, it's gna make it a lot easier for you to see where things are.  And if you space it correctly, it looks better.  So basically that's why.  So there we go. They are spaced more less evenly across the board here.  And then you can say we clear that and we select all our once again everything plus a we assign it into the view like this.  And then we change the width and height again to 100 and a 100. There we go.  And then we can move it around.  So if we take one at a time and we can put it directly underneath the like this do that all the way across here. Maybe it looks correct when we don't do well. You can turn snapping on and off.  can also define uh the spacing between the snap points if you if you want to go really precise on it.  For me, it's enough that they are spaced so far apart that I can easily select every single one if I want to use it.  The layout view is really great if you want to do groups and grouping afterwards.  If you want to do your odd groups or your even groups or whatever, it's gna it's gna help you a lot.  So we have all our vipers, we have ours saved into the show right here, saved into the layout view here.  I need the group as well.  Before we set all our vipers and we set assign into the view, now we gna do it the other way around assign all vipers into the view.  And then as you can see here, the group actually shows up here instead of the single fixture.  And again we can set the width and height if we want to.  Set that to 100 like this.  And now this is all our vipers.  If we exit the setup menu over here and we push it, it selects all of them which is pretty cool.  It is exactly the same as pushing this one.  It's the same item.  It's just this one still references this one.  We just moved the button down here.  But it's the same thing.  If we delete this one, if we change this one, it's gna change this one as well.  Let's do the same with the oras.  Let's just assign all ours down here.  Let's set the size again.  We go into setup and we set the size of this one to a 100 and this one to a 100 as well.  And we move it down here. We have our vipers and we have our oras. But we don't like the icon right here. We need to change the appearance of this one.  So you right click it and you can go into appearance and you can say if you want to choose one of the other icons in here or you can choose a color or you can build a new one and you can load your own images and stuff like that.  We don't want to do that here, but you can do that.  So let's say appearance number 17. Let's just call all our vipers.  Let's make them blue.  And you can see it changes color over here. Let's do the same with the ORS.  Go into appearance and make a new one.  And maybe we just make them red just for the fun of it. There we go. I haven't been able to figure out how to do that on the single fixtures.  I mean, I can right click and I can change the appearance, but it only does it on one of them, which is really annoying.  And I hope that will change at some point. Um, I think that's the way we used to do it on Gran 2, but I'm not really sure.  But maybe we can change it in a later software.  I hope so.  Buuse it's it's very nice to be able to customize the look of these ones.  And you can even put images in as well and stuff like that.  If you go into appearances and if you load an image, you can you can load an image of a Viper if you want to.  And sometimes if you use the especially if you use the GDTF library the images will be on your fixtures.  So that's actually pretty cool.  Let's do the dimmers as the last thing.  Let's assign the dimers down here and let's just put them into place as well.  We need to change the size first.  We can space them a little bit and then we change the size as well to 100 and 800. And then we can move them into position like this. Just do that really quickly.  I know it's boring, but I love to show you all the options here because I think it's really cool that you can customize everything and it's gna help you a lot to have to build everything from scratch.  I mean, you can always use the predefined views and everything that you can load on the console.  But the ability of you need the ability of changing stuff around you need the ability to customize it the way you want it.  And the only good thing the only easy thing to do is learning by doing.  I mean if you just do it even though you don't have to, it's gna be a lot easier for you to remember how to do it on your own afterwards. So there we go.  That's all our dimers. And we so we build our views and everything. Let's build a few sequences just for the fun of it.  Maybe just let's just build one with a few different cues in it.  So let's take all our vipers. It's on right now.  We need to go back to see our 3D view.  So we just press groups and presets.  We didn't save the other view here.  So So we still have this one.  Let's turn it on.  Turn them on and then move them into position number two for instance.  And let's just zoom out a little bit.  If you find yourself constantly having to change your view or something that always jumps back to something you don't want, then zoom out like this and then you can store it again on top of your preset and it's gna show up here the next time.  Just beware if you store this like we did right now, if you store into the layout view, your layout view is gone.  So just be absolutely sure which view you are in and which view you are seeing great things in.  Um, we now turned on all our vipers.  Let's give it a blue color and let's give it a Well, that's basically it.  We want to store this into a sequence.  We can do that in two ways.  We can store it directly into the sequence right here. Right here like this store here.  And this is gna build our first sequence. And as you can see it pops up right here.  We can also if we want to store it directly on one of the faters up here, it's gna position it here.  It's gna it's gna store it right here on two for instance for instance.  But it's also gna create a sequence down here.  So if you store something up here, it's automatically stored a sequence here. Let's just try it for just for the fun of it.  We have store and we push here and you can see it opens a sequence right here.  If we rename it master, you can see it renames it up here as well.  It's sequence number two as you can see on this small number down here. And we just named it master.  Let's just delete this one again.  We still have the swipes open.  So you can simply say delete and it's gone.  We start the other one here.  Let's call this one master instead. Master if I could spell.  There we go.  And now we have a sequence down here.  Let's clear the program.  And let's say where do we want it?  I want to assign it to. So let's do that.  Say everything plus a which is this one up here.  And now we have 2011 up here. Right now it uses the buttons the button just below the fader.  If you want to change that you can go in here.  I have a more in-depth tutorial on that.  It's called sequences I think or faters and buttons.  No, I think it's called executors faders and buttons. It's episode number n as far as I remember or nine in my tutorial series. A little bit more insightful stuff to executors assign sequences to executors in the Grand 3 console because it's a little bit difficult sometimes when you are on the on PC version to get your head around what is actually happening on the real console.  If you store something right here on 2011, where is it gna pop up on the real console?  But it's actually gna pop up on the first fader on your left side on the real console.  And if you change that into not the wings, sorry.  If you go into this one and you go into sections on the Gran 3 light, you have three sections, three sets of faders, five faders in each section and you can choose which one you're looking at or choose how many you want to look at here.  Right now we have all 15 faders up and you can and you can change that if you want to and you can also change which part of the fit.  That's a different tutorial definitely.  But if you are in a gran 3 full size, you have two wings basically you have 30 faters as far as I remember øhm up on the on physical faters.  So basically we're just looking at the first five fathers and we just saved uhm or we just stored a sequence and we assigned it up to father number one.  So now we can start moving it around and manipulating manipulating it or whatever we want.  But let's just before we do that, let's just clear and say if we press go to this one, it's gna turn on what we just saved.  Let's build a few more cues in it.  Let's take the vipers again and change the color to magenta. And we can store that.  We can store it right here or we can store it down here. It's gonna do the same thing.  Let's start here and it's gna ask you create a second queue or do you want to merge it? So if you merge it, it will change the look of queue number one.  We don't want to change the look of queue number one. We want to create number two.  So let's do that.  And if you override it, by the way, it's gna replace whatever was in it.  If you turn on all your oras right now and you override, it's gna kick everything else out that besides what's in your program. And then you have remove if you want to remove some values ​​from the program. That's also a different tutorial because it's a little bit tricky to remove stuff but it's extremely important to know how to do because this is a tracking disc. So being able to store new values ​​into the programmer sorry into a sequence is important but being able to remove some is equally important.  Then you can release the queue list or you can you can release the fixtures or you can create the second queue.  We create the second queue on this one.  And as you can see down here, number two just popped up.  Let's label this one.  Q1. Let's label this one.  Q2. There we go.  Maybe we need to put in a few extra things.  Let's move them to another position and let's store that into this one as number three.  It only asks you the first time if you want to create a second queue.  If you say yes to create a second queue as we did before, it starts a Q list in the sequence. Otherwise, you will often use a fader a button with only one queue in it.  I'm going to show you this in a minute.  We're gna do some bump cues but but but and and then you only need one queue in in your sequence.  So you will have a lot of sequences with only one queue in it when you are doing real shows.  Let's label this one Q3. So now we have I didn't do that correctly. number three.  There we go. Now we have Q1, two and three.  So let's just clear the programs.  It goes back to what it was doing before.  If we press go up here, it's gna change color as we ask it to.  And if we press go again, it's gna go into the roof position and change color as well.  Let's say we need to update the queue number three.  We need ours to change to yellow and we need to store that into que number three.  Basically, we need to change que number three.  We say store and we push queue number three and it's gna ask you do you want to store?  Do you want to merge or remove, release, override or cancel?  Let's just merge it in.  And then when we clear out, it's gna stay in yellow because we are in queue number three.  Let's go back to que number one and let's see what's gna happen.  Change to queue number two.  Change to queue number three.  It's a little fast so we need to change the timing a little bit.  Um, right now it's doing everything in zero seconds.  The duration is zero seconds. We want the fate to be, let's say, two seconds on all of them.  So, I basically just select all of them.  I just push the left mouse button and I just drag it down and I right click and I say two seconds.  Now it changed everything to two seconds. Um, if we push the go button this time, it's gna fade on the duration of two seconds and it's gna go up in two seconds.  Maybe I wanted to go all the way up but stay in the same color until it reaches the uh the top up here.  So I can say edit and that's just pressing E on the keyboard.  Q number three. That's wrong.  I can say edit enter.  There we go.  And then I can select my vipers.  I can go into my color directory down here.  And I can go into delay down here.  And I can say I want to delay the color before it changes color.  I want to delay that with two seconds.  So if I go into color here and I delay for two seconds and then I did the change but now the desk needs to update.  You can't store this.  Actually I haven't tried it on on Granimate 3, but on Granimate 2, you needed to update the queue and I think we need to do that as well here.  So if I go into the command section and I press update, it's gna ask us, do you wanna update que number three?  And I say yes. Goes this one down and we clear. Then we can try running the Q list again.  We go back to queue number one. Que number two changes color.  Que number three moves all the way up.  And when it reaches its sub position then it changes a lot of options in using the timing in the Gran 3 desk or in the Granimate 2 as well and in any lighting desk basically.  Using split timing is brilliant and something you which can help you a lot if you understand how it works.  We can also do another thing.  We can choose our vipers again and we need to change the time again.  We go into the delay.  Right now it's delayed only on the single. miss the single if you are in color and you are in single in the length timing down here it's only gna do it on that one parameter which is the green we need to tie them all together so that's gna be done here with feature.  So let's just try it again and say we delayed it for two seconds.  Let's try something funny. We delay it through 3 seconds.  So now it delays the first fixture two seconds and the last fixture 3 seconds and it spaces everything out in between.  So let's just try and update this one and see what's gonna happen.  We wan to update our sequence master que number three right here. We clear. And then we start the Q list again from scratch. So queue number one, number two in two seconds and queue number three should move all the way up in two seconds and then change color over two seconds over one second. You see it didn't do it at the same time.  It split the time between them. Let's do another change on this one. Let's edit the queue again.  We say edit enter because we in number.  We choose all our vipers.  We choose our color and we say fade right now.  It fades fades on zer seconds which is not correct. Maybe I need to clear this one again. And let's try editing the queue again. Edit.  Enter.  We are in queue number three. We go into fade and we select ours.  Now it says it fades in two seconds.  We needed to fade in zero seconds.  Then you can better see the change.  Once again we update and it asks us again.  Que number three.  Beware if you update over here, that's the preset.  And I presume that's the way it is on gran 2. Anyway, if you have effects running, if you have presets, if you have QES, different que stacks running, it's gna ask you, it can present you with multiple options of you wan to update.  So beware what you update, but we know it's que number three we need to update.  You just push it like it just did now.  Let's clear again and let's start over.  We go into queue number one. We go into queue number two.  It changed color.  Now it moves up and it changed like this because we set a delay time on the on the change.  So it delays from two through to three seconds.  So the first fixture is gna be activated exactly at two seconds and the last fixture is gna be done changing at three seconds.  Sorry. [laughter] Um, that's that's pretty cool.  And you can actually do some amazing effects uh only doing using delay times.  So that's pretty cool.  But let's go back into que number one and say, okay, now we have our father here.  We need to we need to activate some of the other buttons because right now if you go into the section here, you can see we have our master section.  You have four buttons on the gran 3 console on each fader.  You have a bottom in a button called the 100 range.  You have the 200 range which is the first button here.  And you can see the fader is indicated by this one. The next one is also a button and a rotary knob.  And the last one a button and a rotary knob. Right now this sequence is only tied into the button below the fader and the fader but we need to be able to use the other ones as well.  And I also have an end up tutorial on this part of the programming in my Grand May 3 tutorial series. So you can check that out on the channel if you don't want to see this very very long programming session.  So right now it opens up right here.  I need to open up in its own window.  So I go up here into the small icon and you can actually do that on almost any view in the end of the system views.  You can choose where it opens.  So you push this little screen here and you say I wanted to open on internal number two which is our second screen.  It opens up in its own window which means that we can place it over here and then we can see what's happening when we when we do stuff. Right now I have my go button here my button below the fader.  I have the fader up here and then above that I have a button and a rotary up.  If I push this one the 300 range it extends my sequence so I can make use of the button and the rotary above it.  If I do it again it extends all the way up.  So I can make use of two rot rotary knobs and two buttons depending on what you need to do.  Sometimes you need full range and you need a lot of buttons and sometimes you only need a flash button.  That's all up to you.  The only problem is I can't extend it down here.  And that's kind of odd because that would be logical to be able to do that.  But let's just close this one down here and say if I delete this one now it's gone.  But the Q list the sequence is is still down here.  So we can basically just assign it and before we assign it to if we assign it to 101. Now I probably hit a button.  the wrong way.  There we go.  Assign this one to I did it wrong. Assign this one to 101. Now it's only assigned to the button in the bottom of the desk or below the fader.  So now I can extend it up to make use of both of them.  This is the father.  This is the button below the fader.  And this is the bottom all the way in the bottom.  And I can do that all the way up if I want to. If you extended it all the way up and say, "Oh no, I don't want to use the 400 range anyway."  You just push the 300 range and it goes all the way down.  And the same here, you just push it and it goes down.  You can extend it to your right as well and make use of both faters here.  You can go all the way if you want to.  And again, if you want to go back, you simply push the one you want to go back to.  So it's quite easy. So right now I have two buttons below the fader which is part of my sequence.  I have the fader up here and I could extend it up to the next one.  Let's just do that. This one these buttons up here is for your encoder for your rotary knob.  If you push this one, you can tell it what to do basically.  And the same goes for all the other stuff down here.  So let's say we have a go button down here. Maybe we should just turn off the shortcuts then it's easier to see. We have a go button and a go button and a master and a go button.  Maybe we don't need three buttons that do the same thing.  So we can say go plus which is go forward in your que list.  That's fine.  This one I wanted to go minus go backwards in my Q list.  So it's very easy simply just to put it like this and just to select it.  And up here I could choose a flash button.  I could do a uh blackout button.  I could do anything. Like this.  You can turn the fader off if you want to.  Sometimes that's a good thing. I if I run with the longer list, I think especially if you do festival stuff having a top button is pretty cool because that always takes the sequence back to the first queue.  So let's do that.  Maybe if you have if you have all your vipers and you have some intensity fat somewhere, you might have all your colors on another fader.  And if you have say 15 different colors or 10 different colors, sometimes when you are in a hurry and the song is ending and you need to go back to white, it's pretty cool just to be able to hit the top button and you know it's gna go to the to the first queue in the queue list.  So now go plus, go minus, master and top. So we close this one down.  This is the way we want it. Right now it's a little bit difficult to see because we need some room up here. We need to extend the fader.  The fader can't really go up and down right now. So if we go up into the view here and we say I don't want to look at row number 401 you see it disappears.  I don't want to look at row 301 it also disappears. Maybe you don't wan to look at 2011 or maybe you don't wan to look at 101. Um, that depends on what you need to do because that gives you room for the fader to move up and down.  If you turn everything on, the fader can't move.  So, maybe if we do it like this, this is the button we need.  The only thing we are missing right now is the is the top button, but on the real console it's gna be there.  So don't worry about it.  Now we change the layout here.  So basically if I [clears my throat] press the groups and presets now it's gna go back to let's just try it.  It's time to go back to where we were.  So every time you do that, you need to save your view and we can store that on top of groups and presets. And I for some reason didn't do that correctly. Close this one down again and we turn this one off.  And we ah that's because my shortcuts are not active.  So we say store up into this one and we just say okay and now this is our view.  So what are we supposed to do now?  We just build three sorry we build three into a sequence.  Maybe we need to add our add some fun stuff to it.  So let's say we have our vipers in OD.  Our odd vipers.  So half of them we turn them on and we choose the white color.  So that's every second Viper is in white.  We can store that into this button down here maybe and we can clear that.  We can do the same for the events.  We turn them on and we turn them or we choose the white color and we store that into that one. And as you can see the sequences automatically pop up down here.  If we wan to label this uh open white Viber OD and we do the same here.  Open white Viber even we have them right here. No matter how many times we push it stays white.  Let's just say up here instead of a go button we choose a flash button. And the same goes for here.  Instead of a go button we choose a flash button. Right now it's on so we need some way of turning it off. off and g now if I push this one odd vipers are gna be white until I release it again and the same with the other one so basically if you are doing a festival show you can start doing some flashing and some stuff like that we are only using the bottom button right here because we only need to flash this once in a while. So we still have the father we can use for something else.  So maybe we need to put something on the fader and to do that we can go up here to 204 or 205 and say what do we need on it?  Let's put a speed master on it for instance. And how is it that we cannot get into that right now?  I don't know why we ca n't do that. That's kind of odd. Can we go into this one?  Yes, we can That's really weird. Usually when you push this one, you go into the settings even though it's There we go.  You have to right click it to get into it.  So if you on 204, that's the fader on the console.  You right click it, you can define some special masters on it.  So basically if we go down to the master section down here and say I want a speed master.  And I'll show you why this is important in a minute.  I want it to be speed number one. You can click it and you can simply just as far as I remember close this one down.  Now we have a speed master and it's set to it was set to 60 beats per minute.  We can do that again like this. So that's speed master number one.  If you go in here again and you go into the object I forgot how to do it.  If you go into the settings, I'll show you again. If you push this one, it's gna go into the setting you can define what is what. You can go into edit settings and you can rename it and let's call it move speed. And now if we go back move speed.  Let's do something different over here.  We go into the object object and we go into master.  And you can see its changed name here as well.  Let's choose speed number two for the other one.  Whoa, what did I do? There we go.  Uh, where did we come from? Maybe the window is open down here.  I think it is speed number two.  Let's call that dimmer speed. We will use that in a minute when we start using the gran3 faer or the new way of creating effects.  Now we have our move speed and we have our dimer speed. And that can control the if you are doing an effect with the pan and tilt then you can make it very large and then you can control the the size on a fader and you can control the the speed that it moves on this one.  Um, so let's try to build that.  Um, next to build a facer effect, there's a few different ways you can do that.  But first of all, I'm gonna show you I'm gonna show you what I tend to do because you could open the face window.  Um, if you close this one down, if you close all this down here, sequence as well, we can open the face editor.  There we go. Ohm, I think it's very complex and I found another way of doing it which I find a lot easier especially for simple effects, but you can actually do a lot of things a different way.  So, here we are, we have all our vipers.  We turn them on in open white.  We put them into the maybe position two and we say okay we need to play with a dimer effect of some sort.  Down here you have step number one and you can extend it to step number two. And if dimer and we say I step number one and we set it to zer and we go to step number two here and we set it to 100%. Then it's gna start oscillating between those two values.  So zero and 100% that is a simple effect that is a sinus sinus effect and you can you can do all kinds of different things down here with the transitions and the width and the face.  So if we push the face down here and we go down into demmer again and say we want it from zero to 360 it's gna do like this.  So that's a very very easy way to do an effect. So if we store this into our dimer pool here and we clear again, we can take allers again, put them in position two, turn them on we can push the effect and the effect is stored up here. We could want to store this effect on a fader.  Do that on this one and we have our master here. We clear. And we take it all the way down.  And when you turn it on, you can see it starts to do that as we just ask it to. If we put on the other the other list here, which contains our colors, you can see below it the effect starts.  Let's just change this view just a little bit.  We need to take our ambient light down.  I have a separate tutorial on how to beam up the quality on the 3D window in our tutorial series on Gran 3. Let's just set this one all the way up to full power on the on the rendering here. There we go.  3D priority.  Yes, we can say frames per second.  You can turn frames per second on to see if how your computer is coping with it.  You shouldn't take the real MA3 console and putting it all the way to max here because the real console is not designed to do that.  If you wan to use the 3D in a larger show and if you want the perfect quality, you should connect a powerful computer to the the session and then install the unpc software there and then you can log in as a 3D user and then then the the computer is gna do all the heavy lifting and the desk can concentrate on only doing what it's supposed to do.  So now we change the settings.  It looks a little bit better now.  We can maybe take up the beam and the spot a little bit more. Then we can better see what's going on. Let's store this one on top of our existing view.  There we go.  So now we have a dimmer sequence here which is basically just starting to do a dimmer effect.  Right now we can't control the speed but as I promised you before we need to activate this speed master over here.  So if we go into sequence number four maybe we should label it dimmer effect. There we go.  So now we have them here. If we go into the settings up here as we usually do and we go into settings, you will see all kinds of different settings in here.  What we can do is assign this sequence to a speed master and we can do it on a rate master or a speed master. That depends on what you do.  Up here you have all our speed masters and we labeled our dimmer speed previous.  So if we choose that one and we close this one down we should be able to control the dimer speed now which we for some reason can't.  I don't know why maybe we go back in and see what's going on here. Ch speed maybe we need to take the speed master down here instead. There we go.  See if that helped.  That helped.  So now we are controlling the speed on the speed master over here.  So if you're doing a festival again and there's a really slow song, you can turn it all the way down to almost nothing. And if there's a really powerful fast one going on, you can turn it all the way up.  So this one now always controls the speed down here and then you can turn off the effect if you want to. We can do the same if we do some sort of movement.  So if we just make sure we clear here, take all our vipers and again we go into the faces step number one and we say our position our feature we start at position number two and we take the next step and we set it to maybe our roof.  Now it's gna start oscillating between those two points. And again we can set the phase to zer through 360. It's gna do like this.  And we can store it on a fat again.  So this one is sequence five.  If we scroll down here, we can label this to move effect like this.  And we set up our move master, speed master for movement over here.  So again, we can maybe we need to clear this first to be able to see it. And then we take the movement up and then we go into the settings and we edit the settings and we choose our move speed here and we close this one down again.  So now we can simply control the effect down here again.  If we have a slow song it's gna look like this.  If we have a fast song it's gna look like this.  So that's speed masters and very very brief touch on the faces or the effects.  Let me just show you one little simple thing because I find the effect even in Granimate 2 to be a little complex and the same in Granimate 3. I haven't used it enough to be really good at it.  But there's a lot of different options.  Let's just try to do a color effect.  We are in step number one.  We are linked in the feature.  If we are in single, we are only gna use only gna touch one parameter.  But if you are in feature, it's gna take all of it.  So let's see the first one here on our vipers to maybe white.  And let's take the next one and set it to blue.  And again, it's gna start oscillating between those two. So again we can go into the face and we can set it to 0360 360 and then it's gna start doing that.  So basically it's only your imagination that's keeping you from doing some really cool stuff and you have a lot of steps.  You can add even more steps.  And to be honest I haven't played with it enough to do any kind of tutorial on it.  This is the simplest way to do an effect that I could think of. Last but not least, let's try to do some internal time code which is really really easy on the Gran 3 console and it's actually very easy on the gr as well.  We just close these ones down and then we open our time code in here if I can find it. Time codes.  There we go.  all our different slots we can use. Actually that's we don't need that one. We open this one again and we go into more and then we see you can also go into all and then search for it.  We need our time code view and we scale it down. Then we do the same thing and we search for time code again.  And we need our time code pool as well.  When we start up a new time code, it's gna start up a small preset down here as we have it in any other things.  So right now we can go into setup that's gna start a small record button right here.  And as soon as I start recording uh I need to store a time code right here.  As soon as I start recording, it's gna start some internal time code.  So let's say we go this one.  You can see it activates this one.  Let's say I want it to go a little bit up and down.  You can see it registers that as well down here.  You can zoom in and see exactly what's going on.  Let's go to the next queue. Let's do some flashing for the fun of it. And let's turn our demo effect on. I don't know if the speedm reacts to I don't think it actually does.  And then maybe even do some movement here as well. And if we stop the time code, we rewind it here and then we can zoom in a little bit and then we can press play and it's gna run.  So if we go back into our 3D window, it's gna start with that one there.  We can maybe open our time code pool here if there's room for it. There we go.  And it starts running here. As you can see, I can zoom in and out. It's very hard to see.  Maybe if I delete these views as well.  Delete.  And then we can extend this a little bit further so we can see what's going on.  Let's just stop it.  Rewind it again.  And the way time code works uh if you set it up like I have now, it's just gonna stay in the queue it's in until it's told otherwise. You can change that. On granime 3 it was called status call.  I don't remember what it's called on Gran 3a.  I haven't really used it yet.  But let's just stop these key lists.  Let's just get this one off.  Let's get that one off.  And let's leave everything.  And let's just start our time code and see what goes what's going on.  So right now, let's see.  It's gna activate Q1 in a second and then it's gna turn up the fader like this.  Yeah. And then we played a little bit with the father. As you can see, it goes up and down on its own. Then it's time to be ready to activate Q2 right now.  And then we're going to do some flashing here. Everything is happening on the internal time code right now.  I'm not doing anything at the moment to affect anything. And we are running our effects as well. You can see it below. So it's pretty cool what you can do with time code and it's that easy.  If you have an external time code connected to your console, just rewind this again and let's just turn this one off. And let's off that one as well.  There we go.  If you have an a real console and you have a time code signal going into it with music on it of course then you can go back and forth and you can record on the list as soon as the as soon as the the console starts listen it listen list list list list list list listening after time code all the time as soon as it starts receiving time code this one is gna start running and then you will simply go into your time code pool and create a new time code.  start the time code and then simply do your show while you are in recording here. It functions the exact same way.  You simply start recording and then it's gna be like that.  The other cool thing is you don't have to do everything at once. Right now we are recording and it's gna start activating everything as we as we had before.  Now you can put stuff on top of it if you want to say okay I had my flashing going on but I want to flash again here.  So you can you can keep on going through your show and then add layer after layer after layer to make it an extremely complex show if you want to.  So you don't have to do everything the first time you run the time code. You can simply stop.  rewind and then add another layer.  That's how it works and it's really really cool. That is I don't know how many minutes how many hours I've been talking right now but this is gran very simple tutorial to start up from nothing and then records and all your presets and your dimmers and we touched granimate 3 phases a little bit and we talked about sequences and time code on gran 3 and this is a a good very very simple show but of course you can do it much more complex.  We are working on only one screen here and we have a very very bad resolution so you can see it on smaller devices. But as you can see if I go into the small icon here and I set it to 0.75, 75 there a lot more room to work with if you're doing it and I will definitely recommend this because we are very very cramped together right now.  You could extend everything here and have a lot more.  You can see here it divides the time code up into different sections.  So now you can really start to see much much better what's going on. I hope you enjoyed this tutorial and I hope you're gna leave a comment down below if there's anything you think I missed or if there's anything you think is important that I mention do a separate tutorial on please check out the playlist we have linked right here. It has a lot of episodes where we go much more in depth on every subject. Please give the video like if you enjoyed it and maybe even subscribe to the channel so you don't miss any other episodes much foring thank you bye bye