Hey guys, in this tutorial video, I'm going to do a basically scratching the surface kind of video on uh multi- instance fixtures and how I like to get them set up in my show files. Um I know multi- instance can start to appear daunting for uh you know, younger LDS, people getting more familiar with MA, stuff like that. And [snorts] uh you know it can be figuring out how to set things up to where you're getting correct information to your instances. You're getting correct in information to the main or the parent fixture. Um I want to kind of help demystify some of that. So for this video I've basically just got four JDC's like you can see at the bottom of the screen and I've got them patched in in 68 channel mode which is the SPIX mode. So, with that, if I open up uh one of them in the fixture sheet, we can see there's the parent fixture up here, and then there's all the subfixtures down below. Uh there's 24 total instances per fixture. Uh I know I know because I haven't worked with these, the first 12 are the RGB segments and then the last 12 are the uh strobe segments. So, what I like to do to first set this up is we're going to be changing some of the defaults uh specifically on the uh dimmer value on the parent fixture uh and the subfixtures. Uh I have gone ahead and made this store default macro. All it is is store default/merge no confirm. If you tried to type this into the command line, you would get the popups each time that you do it. I like the idea of one click and it's done. I've sent the information that I want. So, I made a macro for it. Um, and it can be helpful in a lot of uh instances for you. So, what we're going to do to swap, as we can see right now, the print fixture is closed and the instances are open. I want to switch that. I want to have dimmer control set on my instances. And then I want things like my position, my strobe, whatnot, uh, to be set on the parent fixture. So, we're going to switch some of these. So entering into the command line, we're going to go 1 through 4. That will just select the parent fixture. I want to set them to open. So I'm going to tell them full. And then we're going to store default. Now, if we clear out, we'll see that they don't turn off. That's because all instances to include the parent fixture, uh, their dimmer value is set to 100 right now. So now we need to select the subfixture. So we'll go 1 through 4 dot through to go ahead and select all of them. Again, the parent fixture here is not selected. All we're going to do is say at zero store default. And now I've basically swapped the control of the dimmer value from the parent fixture to the subfixtures. So now, you know, if I have highlight on, if I select the instances, you can start to see that dimmer is now set to the segments themselves. Now that we've got that set up, I want to go ahead and make my groups. I have made the JDC main that only grabs the parent fixture. Now, real quick, I know we did just see since highlight is on, all the lights came on, but I only had the parent uh fixture grabbed. The reason being is because the highlight value for the parent fixture and for the subfixtures is set to 100. I'm not looking to change any of that necessarily. So, just wanted to clarify that real quick in case you, you know, got confused there. Um, another piece of uh information that can be useful on some fixture types or fixture profiles that have your segments broken into basically sub subfixtures. Basically, all my instances right now in this fixture profile are set immediately under the parent fixture. Sometimes there there are also even just for JDC's here there are other fixture profiles that you can download where it has the parent fixture for the JDC then it has another you know drop- down parent uh for the uh RGB segments and then another one for the strobe segments. This one does not have that. So because of that grid store is not necessarily going to work this time around. Just want to go and throw that out there in case anybody was like, "Oh, just use grid store." It does work, but in times like these where all of your instances are all in the same level pool, it won't work necessarily the same way. There may be workarounds. feel free to throw it in the comments if uh if I'm missing something there, but so far I have not found a way for that to work where RGB can be its own segment or own selection and strobe line can be its own yet making grid store for each. So anyway, so the way I want to set these up is again I know instance 1 through 12 is our RGB segments. So what I'm going to do is in the programmer say 1 through 4.1 through 12. That is selecting all of our RGB segments at their instances. And now we've got them pulled in a linear line in the selection grid. Now of course because there are two levels. There's, you know, the top row and bottom row of RGB segments per fixture. I want that to be emulated in my effects and anything else I put across them. So I want that to be properly reflected in the selection grid. So one of the fastest ways I have found to quickly go through the selection and correct the selection grid is if we go to matrix right here and we say blocks of six because we there are six segments across per row. What we'll end up with is basically eight selections across the selection grid. All that's doing for us is simplifying this is a top row segment. This is a bottom row segment. And the way that we can appropriately reflect that in the selection grid is now that we've got the blocks of six set. We can hit setup right here. It'll open it back up. And actually I jumped ahead. You'll see when I hit setup, it lays everything back out in a linear line. We need to go to the second selection. Uh because if we just go to the first and then hit setup, we've got our first group of six, but we don't need to move them anywhere. We need to start moving the second, then the third, then the fourth, so on so forth. So, I'm going to select the second segment. [snorts] That's now selected. And I'm going to move them right underneath the first selection. Go back to setup. Go to three. We'll bring those guys over. We go to four. We'll go to five. And feel free to skip ahead if you're picking up on exactly what I'm doing right now. Just going to get this set real quick. Here's six. Here's seven. And here's woof eight. Okay. So now that we have that done, we can exit out of setup. Now you will see them go back to their uh selection grid based off the matrix that we have input. But if I hit reset here, it'll throw them back out, but now in the place of where we placed them in the setup selection grid. [snorts] So, now that we've got that done and we see that they are all selected, we can go ahead and store that as a group and we'll label it uh JDCRGB. Now, we've got that selection done. Now that we've got that one, we can go ahead to the strobe line. I know that it is instances 13 through 24. So, in the command line 1 through 4.13 through 24. Now, because these are not stacked like top row, bottom row, they're just straight across. I don't need to make any changes to the selection grid. So, we're going to go ahead and store this as a new group. We'll call this JDC line or strobe or however you want to call it. And now we've got individual control of the instances. Now, if I turn highlight off, um with with highlight off, of course, now you'll have complete control of your instances. Uh but again to show that they are in proper order uh I can next through these and in the 3D window below you can see that they are grabbing top and bottom as we go across the selection grid. Now I'm actually doing this live. I just saw how you can press select and I think it was down and you can select uh into your uh yaxis range. So, if I do that and down. Oh, not down. Not up. Oh, no. What have we done? I'm doing this live, so bear with me. Um, is it next? It is next. Yep. So, if you hold, if you're using shortcuts on your on PC, hold Q, which is the set button. Hold Q and hit the next or the right arrow, that'll select your first Y-axis. And I imagine if you do the next one, it'll do the bottom. So now you can also, you know, see your selection grid laid out in both the X and Y axes. Now that we've got that done, I'm ready to program. Um, this basically is it. Uh, I like how this works for me. Some people may want more control on the parent fixture itself. Again, I would still use the parent fixture to reference my position values, uh, my beam values, maybe some control if I've got, uh, pre, you know, built-in macros running or anything like that. U, but like dimmer color, my dimmer or color effects, I would be running those through the instances themselves. So, anyway, I hope this was helpful in, like I said, just demystifying uh, how to set up your multi- instance fixtures. If this was helpful, please feel free to drop a like, subscribe. Uh if you have any better ways of doing this stuff, uh feel free to throw it in the comments. Um or if I miss something here, throw it in there, too. All right, I'll see you in the next one.