Hey guys, in this video I'm going to show how recipes work in regards to probably what we've heard a lot about how they they auto update when you change group selections. Um, and how yes, sometimes they work, sometimes they don't. Uh, how dependent they are on universal, global, and selective presets. How they work with recipe presets to cue recipes. Uh, just kind of giving a quick overlook on all that. So, if we take a look at this 3D window right here, we've got uh it's a total of 16 vipers. We're calling that our house rig. Basically, like if we had other stuff programmed, that's what we have already programmed. Um, so if I were to click this spots group right here, which is the group that I've used for all of my recipes, both the recipe presets and the Q recipes, all of them reference this group. So, if I click that, you'll see that all 16 vipers, uh, eight on the midstage or, you know, representing mid-stage and eight on the upstage. Um, so we can go through and based on what I've already programmed, here's like a simple dim chase. Yeah, we can see that they're they're autotaking. This is also uh this is a selective a recipe presets turn selective after you've made group selections. Let me show you what I mean by that. So if we open if we hit edit setting. So this is just a recipe preset. It does not actually have any information stored in it. What's happened is because I've made a selection and told that selection what I want it to do under values. That's what makes it selective. So, we can exit out of that. Same deal for this color preset here. Now, this is one thing I want to start I want to show you guys with how universal global and selective presets kind of separate themselves when it comes to recipes. So, if I open this up, we'll see. I'll show you why I've got three groups here in a second. Um, but basically in the recipe preset, anything that's in the spots group that correlates to the global or selective, if I'm not mistaken, and please feel free to throw in the comments if if I'm wrong, anything that's as you go down the line of of recipe lines that like it adds to the priority level, right? So, anything further down has a higher priority. So, what I've done here, let's say this cyan universal preset right here was actually at the bottom. Well, then all of the Vipers would be doing a cyan preset, cyan color preset. So, I've done it in the opposite way uh just to show kind of how it breaks itself out. So, all three of these are the exact same spots group. However, the Vipers were stored with this uh magenta color preset and then the just the mid-stage Vipers were stored with this uh yellow preset. So, actually, if we were to get out of this, I can show you. So, here's the Universal Cyan. We can see that everything lights up. Even the fixtures I'm going to get to that are, you know, further upstage uh than the Upstage Vipers. I'll show you what those are for here in a minute, but because it's universal, anything that can color mix to cyan will automatically go to cyan. Global uh I only stored that uh with the vipers. So you know you could use I could store the magenta on just these midstage store that as global and now uh anything that is a viper will show magenta u and then this selective yellow I only stored like you can see how it highlights those or not highlights but selects those I only stored those on the mid-stage vipers. So that is why this preset comes out the way it does. So uh just a quick show that these recipe presets work the exact same as Q recipes. Again, all it's doing, if I right click and open that, all it's doing is taking the group and telling it to do it's taking the the group selection and giving it a value, telling it, hey, do this preset. Same way for the colors. I just need to do this to make them come on. And I've got them on a fade just to show this is where they're going to start to break up. So, they'll both do the cyan, the magenta, but then only the mid-stage will do the yellow. So, here's where we get to the whole concept of updating groups that are used in recipes. So, we've got this spots group that I've used in all of my group selections for recipe presets and Q recipes. So, let's say we're at a a new venue. We're yeah, we're somewhere new. Uh we've patched in new fixtures, which for us today are going to be these forces spots from Chaveet. Uh they're also, you know, they're they're not some on mid stage, some on down. They're also not the same number from left to right. Let's say it's all upstage and it's 12 of them. Again, super hypothetical, but let's just say this is what it is. What we can do, there's a couple different methods, but I'm just going to show you this one. uh you know for the sake of ease of consistency if I were to take this group and we know that you know you always want to have your um groups aligned like centered with each other. So the same way like in the selection grid where it's showing you know 00 going to 08 for the midstage and then 01 grid grid location 01 excuse me. Uh notice it's one zero right here to eight grid spaces over this way. The same way that those are centered with each other. We want to center our incoming spots with those as well. That way everything all acts correctly together. So what we're going to do cuz we know it's 12. That'd be two extra on each side as compared to the eight. So I'm going to go one, two. I'm going to select this group and then we're going to store in our spots group. Again, the reference group. And because we're only adding information, we're not changing or taking away information. Um, we can select merge right here. So now if I do this, uh, dimmer chase recipe preset, we can see. Yeah. So it's it's having the mid-stage vipers, upstage vipers, and our new force spots. They're all doing it. Now, this is where it starts to change. If I go full on this, this is where you start to see that breakdown. Again, universal means any fixture that can perform those attributes you have stored will do it. Global means only the same fixture type will do that uh will will will be able to do what that preset is is wanting the fixture to do. And then selective will only do the selected fixtures at the time that you made the preset. So that's why we're seeing this mid-stage viper group uh only do the yellow upstage Viper group only do the magenta and this foress spot group do the cyan. Again, just to show that both recipe presets and key recipes perform the same way, we can do this dim chase. We can see the same way that the recipe preset, you know, performed this action. Now, you can see and now it's just coming from a uh from a sequence instead of a preset, but the same output action is is happening, right? Uh once again, I went through this color fade. I'm going to turn them all on. So, here in a second, they'll fade. They'll all go to cyan first because the first I didn't show you this yet. First, uh first Q is them at cyan again, spot group, universal cyan. The second one, if I turn off autoscroll, second one is the same group selection, but with a global preset. Um, so only the fixtures that were of the same fixture type as the fixtures that were used when I made the preset will actually perform that action. Um, and then same deal for uh this third pre uh third Q which is same group selection spot selection and then the selective yellow color preset. So if we look at it, we'll kind of see them start to break down again. And we see the forces spots only do the cyan. The upstage vipers can only do the magenta after cyan. And then these mid-stage vipers are able to do each color preset that's being pushed through the Q Q recipe because it is available for each type of preset store type, the universal, global, and selective. I know that's a lot of words for how this works. I really just want to give a demonstration on what it means when you make updates. We can even do one more where uh again the same way that we we can even watch it change live. So let's say we only have the mid-stage we're changing the group entirely and we only want these mid-stage vipers to perform, you know, any of the the color actions, the dimmer chase, whatever. We can take that mid-stage selection store on our spots. And again, because we're now we're basically taking away all the other fixture selection information, right? We're taking away the upstage group and the forces spot group. Because of that, we can't do merge because we we don't want to merge information to other information that's already there. We're taking stuff out. So, we're going to hit overwrite. And even there we go. Live. It automatically updated to where now only I can even have both of these run at the same time. Only the mid-stage vipers are performing anything to do with this spot group. I know again I know that's a lot of words. Um I hope that this was kind of help help break it down for you. Um just yeah showing how this is what people mean when you know recipes are great because they'll auto update whenever you make changes to the group. There is a time and place for them there. Luckily with how MA3 operates, there's a lot of room for the the time and place for it to to work the way you want it to. But again, it just really comes down to how you want to use it, how it can best work for you, for for your, you know, need cases, all that type of stuff. So anyway, that is how updating recipes with their groups work.